---
title: "Friday June 19th — Preview: Groups A & B"
date: "2026-06-18"
type: preview
excerpt: "Round two of Groups A and B. South Africa and Czechia both need a bounce-back. Switzerland should cruise. Canada must win. And the main event: Mexico vs South Korea."
venues:
  "Czechia vs South Africa": "Atlanta, GA"
  "Switzerland vs Bosnia-Herzegovina": "Los Angeles, CA"
  "Canada vs Qatar": "Vancouver, BC"
  "Mexico vs South Korea": "Guadalajara, Mexico"
---

We start our round two preview by looking at the worst performing or most disappointing teams in the tournament. Groups A and B had by far the most suspicious performances for me. They are two of the weaker groups, but on the world stage, you need to perform and they all have the ability to do that.

## Czechia vs South Africa

Our first game of the day sees an early kickoff in Atlanta as Czechia takes on South Africa. Both teams lost their first game, and deservedly so, as they were each worse than their respective opponents. For Czechia, they need to focus on looking dangerous in places other than set pieces, especially since they won't have quite the height advantage they did in their first game. They need to look to get Patrik Schick some more chances. He is excellent in the air, so set pieces are great, but they need to get him open and moving dynamically like Bayer Leverkusen is able to do at the club level. For South Africa, it needs to be even more basic. Let's focus on avoiding getting direct red cards, let alone two. Speaking of which, the red cards in their opening game were the only ones of the tournament so far. They need to go back to the game they loved as a kid and just have fun. They looked totally uninspired and apathetic in their first game. That is not what this team is about at all. We know they are fun, lively and play energetically, especially on the counter. We want to see this! I expect Czechia to handle this relatively easily, but mostly because I think we could be watching this South Africa team implode in real time.

## Switzerland vs Bosnia-Herzegovina

Also at 11 AM local time in Los Angeles, we see Switzerland take on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Switzerland looked the best of the teams in Group B. They had a bunch of possession against Qatar and should have won, but they had a momentary lapse of concentration and gave up a goal on the counter. They created plenty of chances and looked great, especially down the left side with Ruben Vargas. If they had shown a bit more composure in front of goal, we would be talking about how good they looked, so I am not hitting the panic button yet. I do want to see more of Johan Manzambi. When we put 20-year-olds on the team, it is not so they can sit on the bench. I am not saying he needs to start, but give him 45 minutes to grow into the game; he looked like their best player once he was subbed on against Qatar. Lastly, for the Swiss, Granit Xhaka had unlimited time in their last game, and he is likely to have it here and against Canada. This is a recipe for disaster for their opponents. He is very surgical with both long balls and shots from outside the box, and we saw that against Qatar, they just couldn't finish. For Bosnia, they defended valiantly against Canada and honestly outplayed them for most of the game. This will be a much tougher task for them. They are probably going to drop into that same shell they had in game one and play on the counter again. They played their first game without the best player to ever put on the Bosnian jersey, Edin Džeko, who, if or when he plays, will become the fourth player of 40 or older to play in a World Cup. Just like with the Swiss, we do not put 18-year-olds on the team to ride the bench. I would like to see Kerim Alajbegović get more time to run around and annoy the holding midfield players of Switzerland. He had a fine season at Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga, and if you are going to compete in this game and tournament, you need to find some star power from somewhere. Let's find out what we have here. I expect Switzerland to have made the necessary adjustments from game one and cruise here, but they will need to execute at a high level against a very organized Bosnian defense.

## Canada vs Qatar

We are sticking on the West Coast and traveling all the way up the Interstate 5 (or PCH 1 if you are a tourist or a psycho) to Vancouver so Canada can play for the best coast and take on Qatar. This is a must win for Canada. They do not want to go into their final group game needing a win against Switzerland. They know this, so expect them to play much more aggressively than they did in game one. I will cut them some slack for their first game because their best player, Alphonso Davies, was injured and did not play. It looks like he is ready and will be available. He won't play the whole game and most likely will not start, but just having him on the field for 30 minutes is a massive upgrade for any team. For Canada, they need to be more decisive and creative than they were in game one; it was neither direct nor innovative, serving as the pinnacle of possession without intent. We are looking for them to challenge the Qatari backline more and ask more questions than they asked of Bosnia. As for Qatar, they have the coveted schedule lineup of hardest to easiest games. They are looking for another draw here and will be doing cartwheels if they manage to pick up a win. Even though the plan was to sit back and counter Switzerland, I thought it was too passive. So look for a bit of a higher press in this game; they have the players to do it. Canada does not have a Granit Xhaka to ping the ball around the field with pinpoint accuracy (most teams don't, to be clear), but Ismaël Koné will look to fill a similar role. He was Canada's best player in game one and won Man of the Match. He has a different skill set than Xhaka but will look to create just like him. I expect to get a decisive game here with Canada taking the win, but of the games we talked about so far, this is the most likely to end in a draw.

## Mexico vs Korea Republic

Our final game of the day sees El Tri continue their tour of Mexico in Guadalajara and take on the Taegeuk Warriors of South Korea. These two teams have a bit of a romance after South Korea beat Germany in the 2018 World Cup and allowed Mexico to move on to the round of 16. The affection has already been on full display so far and will continue, hopefully, as South Korea plays all of their group stage games in Mexico. This in theory will be the highest quality game of the day, as these two are two of the top three teams we have talked about so far. South Korea looked really good against Czechia, with the exception of set pieces. It is impossible to evaluate Mexico after their first game because of how bad South Africa looked. I expect this is a good but not great team that is capable of punishing mistakes and having moments of extreme quality. For Mexico, they need to play through Julián Quiñones like they did against South Africa, if not more, as he was their best player in the previous game and might just be their best player in general. We put 17-year-old Gilberto Mora on the team to play and make a difference. He is the youngest player at the tournament. He is an exciting talent who can add some creativity to the field, so if that is needed, I expect to see him, just as we did in game one. Finally, I want to see Erik Lira come and get the ball more in the center of the midfield. Part of Mexico's stagnant play to kick off the tournament was that there was no bridge between the defense and midfield when Mexico wanted to play through the center. So hopefully he comes back to get the ball more than he did in Mexico City. For South Korea, they can keep on keeping on. They had the best performance of any of the teams to play in groups A and B. Of course, they still have improvements to make. Their finishing was mostly lacking, with a couple of key exceptions, so if that is up to its normal standard, then Mexico could be in trouble, specifically with respect to captain Son Heung-min. I was really impressed with their midfielders against Czechia, specifically Paik Seung-ho and Man of the Match Hwang In-beom. If they can control the midfield, it will be a long night for Mexico. Overall, I expect this game to be high quality but also a bit timid from both teams. They both won their first game and have put themselves in an excellent spot to advance with just one point. Don't expect players to be taking huge chances, especially late. They are both favored massively in their final games, and just a point here is easily enough to advance.
